Working of Browser - 

When a user enters an URL in the browser, the browser sends a request to the server where the website is hosted. The request is sent to the server using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). The server then processes the request and sends back the corresponding web page, along with the HTTP status code, in the form of an HTTP response. The browser then parses the HTML, CSS and JavaScript from the response, and uses it to render the web page on the user's device.

Main Functionality of web browser- 
A web browser takes you anywhere on the internet. It retrieves information from other parts of the web and displays it on your desktop or mobile device. The information is transferred using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol, which defines how text, images and video are transmitted on the web. This information needs to be shared and displayed in a consistent format so that people using any browser, anywhere in the world can see the information

High-Level Components of the web browser-
The user interface: this includes the address bar, back/forward button, bookmarking menu, etc. Every part of the browser display except the window where you see the requested page.
The browser engine: marshals actions between the UI and the rendering engine.
The rendering engine: responsible for displaying requested content. For example, if the requested content is HTML, the rendering engine parses HTML and CSS and displays the parsed content on the screen.
Networking: for network calls such as HTTP requests, using different implementations for different platforms behind a platform-independent interface.
UI backend: used for drawing basic widgets like combo boxes and windows. This backend exposes a generic interface that is not platform specific. Underneath it uses operating system user interface methods.
JavaScript interpreter. Used to parse and execute JavaScript code.
Data storage. This is a persistence layer. The browser may need to save all sorts of data locally, such as cookies. Browsers also support storage mechanisms such as localStorage, IndexedDB, WebSQL and FileSystem.



Rendering Engine and its use-

As the name suggests, this component is responsible for rendering a specific web page requested by the user on their screen. It interprets HTML and XML documents along with images that are styled or formatted using CSS, and a final layout is generated, which is displayed on the user interface.
Note: Every browser has its own unique rendering engine. Rendering engines might also differ for different browser versions. The list below mentions browser engines used by a few common browsers:
Google Chrome and Opera v.15+: Blink
Internet Explorer: Trident
Mozilla Firefox: Gecko
Chrome for iOS and Safari: WebKit


Parsing- 
Parsing means analyzing and converting a program into an internal format that a runtime environment can actually run.

The browser parses HTML into a DOM tree. HTML parsing involves tokenization and tree construction. HTML tokens include start and end tags, as well as attribute names and values. If the document is well-formed, parsing it is straightforward and faster. The parser parses tokenized input into the document, building up the document tree.

When the browser encounters CSS styles, it parses the text into the CSS Object Model (or CSSOM), a data structure it then uses for styling layouts and painting. The browser then creates a render tree from both these structures to be able to paint the content to the screen. JavaScript is also downloaded, parsed, and then executed.
JavaScript parsing is done during compile time or whenever the parser is invoked, such as during a call to a method.
